Amend RFC 2996 to replace `Stream` with  `AsyncIterator` (#3208)
rust-lang/rfcs: text/2996-async-iterator.md

- Feature Name: `async_iterator`
- Start Date: 2020-09-29
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#2996](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2996)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#79024](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/79024)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Introduce the `AsyncIterator` trait into the standard library, using the

> design from `futures`. Redirect the `AsyncIterator` trait definition in the 
> `futures-core` crate (which is "pub-used" by the `futures` crate) to the standard library.

Reviewer: The `futures-core` crate still calls it `Stream` today, so maybe this should read something like:

```suggestion
design from `futures`. Redirect the `Stream` trait definition in the 
`futures-core` crate (which is "pub-used" by the `futures` crate) to the `AsyncIterator` trait in the standard library.
```

Author: Updated; thanks!

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Async iterators are a core async abstraction. These behave similarly to `Iterator`,
but rather than blocking between each item yield, it allows other
tasks to run while it waits.

> People can do this currently using the `AsyncIterator` trait defined in the 

Reviewer: Similar to above, I think this might read better as something like:

> People can do this currently using the `Stream` trait defined in the futures crate.  However, we would like to this trait to the standard library and rename it to `AsyncIterator`.

Author: Updated; thanks!

- Feature Name: `async_iterator`
- Start Date: 2020-09-29
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#2996](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2996)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#79024](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/79024)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Introduce the `AsyncIterator` trait into the standard library, using the
design from `futures`. Redirect the `Stream` trait definition in the 
`futures-core` crate (which is "pub-used" by the `futures` crate) to the
`AsyncIterator` trait in the standard library.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Async iterators are a core async abstraction. These behave similarly to `Iterator`,
but rather than blocking between each item yield, it allows other
tasks to run while it waits.

People can do this currently using the `Stream` trait defined in the 
[futures](https://crates.io/crates/futures) crate. However, we would like

> to add `AsyncIterator` to the standard library as `AsyncIterator`. 

Reviewer 2: to add `Stream` to the standard library as `AsyncIterator`?

Author: good call; updated!

There are a number of simple "bridge" impls that are also provided:

```rust
impl<S> AsyncIterator for Box<S>
where
    S: AsyncIterator + Unpin + ?Sized,
{
    type Item = <S as AsyncIterator>::Item
}

impl<S> AsyncIterator for &mut S
where
    S: AsyncIterator + Unpin + ?Sized,
{
    type Item = <S as AsyncIterator>::Item;
}

impl<S, T> AsyncIterator for Pin<P>
where

>     P: DerefMut<Target=T> + Unpin,

Reviewer 3: I think the `P: Unpin` bound is unnecessary. See https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/81363.

Author: You may be right, but the `P: Unpin` bound [exists on the implementation today](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/stream/trait.Stream.html#impl-Stream-2), and is separate from the change we're proposing here. Likely the best way to go about this would be to open a separate PR against the stdlib, reasoning why you think we can drop the `P: Unpin` bound for `Stream`.

## Where should async iterator live?

As mentioned above, `core::async_iter` is analogous to `core::future`. But, do we want to find 
some other naming scheme that can scale up to other future additions, such as io traits or channels?

# Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

## Next method

While users will be able to implement a `AsyncIterator` as defined in this RFC, they will not have a way to interact with it in the core library. As soon as we figure out a way to do it in an object safe manner, we should add a `next` method  either in the `AsyncIterator` trait or elsewhere.

The `Iterator` trait includes a `next` method, which computes and returns the next item in the sequence. We should also implement a `next` method for `AsyncIterator`, similar to [the implementation in the futures-util crate](https://docs.rs/futures-util/0.3.5/src/futures_util/stream/stream/next.rs.html#10-12).

The core `poll_next` method is unergonomic; it does not let you iterate 
over the items coming out of the async iterator. Therefore, we include a few minimal 
convenience methods that are not dependent on any unstable features, such as `next`.

> As @yoshuawuyts states in their [pull request which adds `core::async_iter::AsyncIterator` to the standard library](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/79023):

Reviewer 4: Not sure replacing this makes sense, since that PR and discussion used the Stream naming.

Pinning also applies to the design of AsyncRead/AsyncWrite, which currently uses Pin even through there is no clear plan to make them implemented with generator type syntax. The asyncification of a signature is currently understood as pinned receiver + context arg + return poll.

> Another key difference between `Iterators` and `AsyncIterators` is that futures are ultimately passed to some executor API like spawn which expects a `'static` future. To achieve that, the futures contain all the state they need and references are internal to that state. Iterators are almost never required to be `'static` by the APIs that consume them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Another key difference between `Iterator`s and `AsyncIterator`s is that futures are ultimately passed to some executor API like spawn which expects a `'static` future. To achieve that, the futures contain all the state they need and references are internal to that state. Iterators are almost never required to be `'static` by the APIs that consume them.
```
